Update README.md (#857)
springernature/frontend-toolkits: toolkits/global/packages/global-forms/README.md

# Global Forms

The forms component provides a range of form elements and inputs that allow users to enter information. It also includes error messages. It is designed to make it as simple as possible to create an HTML form.

## When to use this component
Use the forms component when users need to submit information or data. This could be in order to complete a task or as part of a service we provide. For example, when an author needs to enter the title of their manuscript when submitting to a journal.

## How it works
The forms component does not include any JavaScript. States (such as an invalid/error state) are defined at a data level. If you're using client-side processing, you might benefit from compiling the form’s handlebars template in the browser.

> - Data structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> - Interdependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Registering partials

Reviewer 2: As someone that reads this doc for the first time, I find it hard to understand what Interdependencies in this case means, maybe we could say a bit more about those 3 points?

## Installation
To use the forms component, enter the following command in your Terminal:

```
npm install @springernature/global-forms

> ```

Reviewer 2: Could maybe be useful for a beginner to say that should run this command from root folder?

</form>
```

For this example, you might have 2 simple inputs for a name and password:

> ```html

Reviewer 2: You might want to use json :)

}
```

## Fields and fieldsets

### Fields

> Form fields are made up of a control (the input) and an associated label. They can also include hints that give extra guidance when filling out a field. 

Reviewer 3: 'They can also include hint text to provide extra guidance... '

> Form fields are made up of a control (the input) and an associated label. They can also include hints that give extra guidance when filling out a field. 

Author: ```suggestion
Form fields are made up of a control (the input) and an associated label. They can also include hint text to provide extra guidance when filling out a field. 
```

}
```

### Fieldsets

Use a fieldset to group fields together under its `fields` property. Use a `legend` property to label the fieldset itself.

![Panel](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15365576/209008283-cf253e6c-2ef8-4af1-8751-8a04da67c317.png)

There are 2 ways to add fieldsets to your form:
1. Create a field with the template value of `globalFormFieldset` and an array of fields using its `fields` property.
2. Create an array of fieldsets and loop over them, assigning the globalFormFieldset partial.

#### (1) The fieldset field

```json
{
    "template": "globalFormFieldset",
    "legend": "<h1>Login</h1>",
    "fields": [
        ...
    ]
```
    
#### (2) A fieldset array
In this case, each fieldset is an object:

```json
"myFieldsets": [
    {
        "legend": "<h2>One fieldset</h2>",
        "fields": [
            ...
        ]
    },
    {
        "legend": "<h2>Another, different fieldset</h2>",
        "fields": [
            ...
        ]
    }    
]
```

> And the accompanying template would iterate over the fieldsets, applying the `globalFormFieldset` partial:

Reviewer 3: Not clear what 'iterate' means in this context?

Author: @Heydon can you clarify here?

Reviewer: @alexhallspringer @foxintherain Sorry, writing for developers! It's a common term for traversing data using a loop. Could forego that with:

_"And the accompanying template would apply the `globalFormFieldset` partial to each fieldset."_

Author: ```suggestion
And the accompanying template would apply the `globalFormFieldset` partial to each fieldset:
```

```html
{{#each myFieldsets}}
    {{> globalFormFieldset}}
{{/each}}
```

## Legends

Use HTML to style the legend and add semantic meaning. In most cases, legends should be headings, with the heading level determined by the page structure.

![Legends](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15365576/210399801-a3078572-c8cb-4826-93bb-02b2aabb9fbc.png)

```json
"fieldsets": {
    [
        {
            "legend": "<h2>My level 2 legend</h2>",
            "fields": [
                ...
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

> For accessibility, do not use a fieldset without an accompanying legend. If a legend is not appropriate, neither is a fieldset; just use fields without a fieldset parent.

Reviewer 3: Not sure we really need 'For accessibility' here - should either remove or be more specific about the reason for it.

Author: @Heydon Is this to do with screenreaders?

Reviewer: @foxintherain @alexhallspringer  Largely, yes. Happy to remove "For accessibility..." or—if we want to be more specific—we can have:

_"Fieldsets represent groups of functionality and groups need to be labeled, with a legend. If a legend is not appropriate, neither is a fieldset; just use fields without a fieldset parent."_

Author: ```suggestion
Do not use a fieldset without an accompanying legend. If a legend is not appropriate, neither is a fieldset; just use fields without a fieldset parent.
```

}
```

### Fieldsets

Use a fieldset to group related inputs that are itemised under their `fields` property, with a legend to label the fieldset itself.  

![Panel](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15365576/209008283-cf253e6c-2ef8-4af1-8751-8a04da67c317.png)

There are 2 ways to add fieldsets to your form:
1. Create a field with the template value of globalFormFieldset and an array of fields using the fields property.
2. Create an array of fieldsets and loop over them, assigning the globalFormFieldset partial.

#### (1) The fieldset field

```json
{
    "template": "globalFormFieldset",
    "legend": "<h1>Login</h1>",
    "fields": [
        ...
    ]
```
    
#### (2) A fieldset array
In this case, each fieldset is an object:

> ```html

Reviewer 2: json

"myFieldsets": [
    {
        "legend": "<h2>One fieldset</h2>",
        "fields": [
            ...
        ]
    },
    {
        "legend": "<h2>Another, different fieldset</h2>",
        "fields": [
            ...
        ]
    }    
]
```

And the accompanying template would include this:

```html
{{#each myFieldsets}}
    {{> globalFormFieldset}}
{{/each}}
```

## Legends

Use HTML to style the legend and add semantic meaning. In most cases, legends should be headings, with the heading level determined by the page structure.

![Legends](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15365576/210399801-a3078572-c8cb-4826-93bb-02b2aabb9fbc.png)

> ```html

Reviewer 2: json

### Error messages

Error messages inform the user when there’s a problem with the information they’ve provided and how they can fix it.

Error messages are displayed inline, underneath the label and above the input of the relevant field. Error messages are prefixed with a cross icon. This helps to make the error more obvious to users who cannot perceive the red colour. 

![Error messages](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15365576/210441442-39bf66c2-f61b-4d7a-b1c8-dd4f3d36465f.png)

Each field can have an `error` property. The inclusion of the property means the field is in an error state. The property value (a string) defines the error message the user sees.

```json
{
    "template": "globalFormText",
    "label": "Full name",
    "id": "full-name",
    "name": "full-name",
    "error": "Enter your name"
}
```

### Error summary

![Error summary](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15365576/210442372-8f8547d9-27eb-4425-90f4-f1237bea0e59.png)

Summarise errors using a top level `errorSummary` property. Each error in the errors array must point to the `id` of the input it relates to and repeat its `error` message:

> ```

Reviewer 2: Do you maybe want to use json here?

```json
{
    "legend": "<h2>Which subject categories apply to your manuscript?</h2>",
    "fields": [
        {
            "template": "globalFormCheckbox",
            "label": "Biological sciences",
            "id": "biological-sciences",
            "name": "biological-sciences"
        },
        {
            "template": "globalFormCheckbox",
            "label": "Earth and environmental sciences",
            "id": "earth-sciences",
            "name": "earth-sciences"            
        },
        {
            "template": "globalFormCheckbox",
            "label": "Health sciences",
            "id": "health-sciences",
            "name": "health-sciences"            
        },
        {
            "template": "globalFormCheckbox",
            "label": "Physical sciences",
            "id": "physical-sciences",
            "name": "physical-sciences"            
        }
    ]
}
```

## Selects

![Selects](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15365576/210582769-2eb6fc0e-ce10-40f4-b6a0-d037e5c55c0a.png)

### When to use this form element

> Research shows that some [people find selects difficult to use](https://www.lukew.com/ff/entry.asp?1950).

Reviewer 3: Include 'some' in the link text.

Author: ```suggestion
Research shows that [some people find selects difficult to use](https://www.lukew.com/ff/entry.asp?1950).
```

> Only use selects when there’s genuinely no other option.

Reviewer 3: Not sure this is needed. Would at least remove 'genuinely'.

Author: ```suggestion
Only use selects when there’s no other option.
```

### When not to use this form element

Aim to use alternatives such as: 

- Radios, for relatively short lists of options
- A text input with autocomplete where the range of options is large 

### How it works

`Select` fields (using the `<select>` element) define the user’s options with an `options` property, which must be an array. The `selected` property can be used to preselect an option:

```json
"options": [
    {
        "label": "Author affiliation",
        "value": "University of Tokyo"
    },
    {
        "label": "University of Tokyo",
        "value": "University of Tokyo",
        "selected": true
    }
]
```

## File upload

![File upload](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15365576/210588295-d3e3119e-a3b0-44ca-be3a-8ee33416378b.png)

### When to use this form element

> File upload allows users to select and upload a file of their choosing. Use this element when it is a necessary part of a service e.g. an author manuscript as part of the publication process.

Reviewer 3: 'for example' not 'e.g.'

Author: ```suggestion
File upload allows users to select and upload a file of their choosing. Use this element when it is a necessary part of a service. For example, an author manuscript as part of the publication process.
```

### How it works

The standard `accept` attribute is supported. Use this for filtering out file types that are not applicable for submission.

## Buttons

![Buttons](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15365576/210589049-ff61646f-c7c5-4dcf-9fc4-2b011b53ced0.png)

### When to use this form element

Use a button to let a user perform an action such as:

- Progressing to the next section of a form
- Submitting a completed form

> Only use the primary button styling as the main call to action on a page.

Reviewer 3: Could this be more like:

'Use the primary button styling for the main call to action on a page.' - otherwise it implies that on these pages you can only have the primary button and no others.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the primary button styling for the main call to action on a page.
```

```json
{
    "template": "globalFormText",
    "label": "Your email address",
    "id": "your-email",
    "name": "your-email",
    "dataAttrs": {
        "test": "someValue"
    }
}
```

This would create the following attribution: `data-test: someValue.`

#### Datalist

Text input fields can have a `datalist` property, which lets you implement autocomplete. This takes 2 properties: `id` and `options` (an array):

```json
"datalist": {
    "id": "my-datalist",
    "options": [
        "monkey",
        "horse",
        "emu",
        "platypus",
        "cockroach",
        "whale"
    ]
}
```

This builds a standard `datalist` field, with `options`, and associates it with the input. If a `datalist` already exists in the markup, provide just the `id` and forego the `option` property. If you want to use a custom-built autocomplete solution using JavaScript, omit the `datalist` property from the field altogether.

## Radios

![Radios](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15365576/210527456-7584ec3c-2c80-43f5-abd9-6583e6896bdd.png)

### When to use this form element

> Use the radio input when users need to pick a single option from a list.

Reviewer: Technically, it would always be more than one `<input>`...
```suggestion
Use the radios field (`globalFormRadios`) when users need to pick a single option from a list.
```

### How it works

#### Radio groups

Radios define choices with an `inputs` array:

```json
{
    "template": "globalFormRadios",
    "legend": "How should we contact you?",
    "inputs": [
        {
            "label": "Email",
            "value": "Email",
            "name": "contact"
        },
        {

>             "label": "Email",

Reviewer: You have duplicate choices here, both Email. MAybe the second should be Phone?

```
{
    "label": "Phone",
    "value": "Phone",
    "name": "contact"
}
```

```
{
    "legend": "<h2>Which subject categories apply to your manuscript?</h2>",
    "fields": [
        {
            "template": "globalFormCheckbox",
            "label": "Biological sciences",
            "id": "biological-sciences",
            "name": "biological-sciences"
        },
        {
            "template": "globalFormCheckbox",
            "label": "Earth and environmental sciences",
            "id": "earth-sciences",
            "name": "earth-sciences"            
        },
        {
            "template": "globalFormCheckbox",
            "label": "Health sciences",
            "id": "health-sciences",
            "name": "health-sciences"            
        },
        {
            "template": "globalFormCheckbox",
            "label": "Physical sciences",
            "id": "physical-sciences",
            "name": "physical-sciences"            
        }
    ]
}
```

## Selects

![Selects](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15365576/210582769-2eb6fc0e-ce10-40f4-b6a0-d037e5c55c0a.png)

### When to use this form element

Research shows that some [people find selects difficult to use](https://www.lukew.com/ff/entry.asp?1950).

> Only use selects when there’s genuinely no other option.

Reviewer: I think this is redundant (and a bit vague) the following text covers alternatives nicely.

### When not to use this form element

Aim to use alternatives such as: 

- Radios, for relatively short lists of options
- A text input with autocomplete where the range of options is large 

### How it works

`Select` fields (using the `<select>` element) define the user’s options with an `options` property, which must be an array. The `selected` property can be used to preselect an option:

> ```

Reviewer 2: You might want to use json here?

"options": [
    {
        "label": "Author affiliation",
        "value": "University of Tokyo"
    },
    {
        "label": "University of Tokyo",
        "value": "University of Tokyo",
        "selected": true
    }
]
```

## File upload

![File upload](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15365576/210588295-d3e3119e-a3b0-44ca-be3a-8ee33416378b.png)

### When to use this form element

File upload allows users to select and upload a file of their choosing. Use this element when it is a necessary part of a service e.g. an author manuscript as part of the publication process.

### How it works

The standard `accept` attribute is supported. Use this for filtering out file types that are not applicable for submission.

## Buttons

![Buttons](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15365576/210589049-ff61646f-c7c5-4dcf-9fc4-2b011b53ced0.png)

### When to use this form element

Use a button to let a user perform an action such as:

- Progressing to the next section of a form

> - Submit a completed form

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Submitting a completed form
```

> Only use the primary style button as the main call to action on a page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only use the primary button styling as the main call to action on a page.
```

### How it works

A `template` of `buttons` defines a set of button controls, displayed inline (using Flexbox and `gap` for tidy wrapping). The `type` property for each individual button corresponds to the `type` HTML attribute. For example, here is how you would include a submit button:

> ```

Reviewer 2: You might want to use json here? Otherwise ignore this comment :)

The `modifiers` property is an array. Each value should match one of these modifiers from the brand context’s button utility styles:

- primary
- secondary
- tertiary
- contrast
- ghost
- xsmall
- small
- large
- full-width

## Hidden inputs

### How it works
You can hide any field from visibility (also from screen reader software and keyboard interaction) using `hidden: true`. If you want to use a field of `type="hidden`", you need to use `template: globalFormHidden`. It is recommended you also apply `hidden: true` to such fields because it will remove the inter-field margin. In the following example, note the `label` is omitted since hidden fields are not user facing.

```json
{
    "template": "globalFormHidden",
    "id": "hidden-field",
    "name": "hidden-field",
    "hidden": true,
}
```

## Inline fields

![Inline fields](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15365576/210591214-da46fdcf-5c55-435a-bf8c-be1424db4595.png)

### When to use this form element

> Use inline fields when you need to ask users for information that is part of a continuous set, such as the date or credit card number.

Reviewer 3: 'a date' not ' the date'

Author: ```suggestion
Use inline fields when you need to ask users for information that is part of a continuous set, such as a date or credit card number.
```

### When not to use this form element

> Don’t use inline fields for an entire form, as this will make it harder for users to scan the page.

Reviewer 3: 'Do not' rather than 'don't'.

Author: ```suggestion
Do not use inline fields for an entire form, as this will make it harder for users to scan the page.
```

The `modifiers` property is an array. Each value should match one of these modifiers from the brand context’s button utility styles:

- primary
- secondary
- tertiary
- contrast
- ghost
- xsmall
- small
- large
- full-width

## Hidden inputs

### How it works
You can hide any field from visibility (also from screen reader software and keyboard interaction) using `hidden: true`. If you want to use a field of `type="hidden`", you need to use `template: globalFormHidden`. It is recommended you also apply `hidden: true` to such fields because it will remove the inter-field margin. In the following example, note the `label` is omitted since hidden fields are not user facing.

> ```

Reviewer 2: You might want to use json here? Otherwise ignore this comment :)

{
    "template": "globalFormHidden",
    "id": "hidden-field",
    "name": "hidden-field",
    "hidden": true,
}
```

## Inline fields

![Inline fields](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15365576/210591214-da46fdcf-5c55-435a-bf8c-be1424db4595.png)

### When to use this form element

Use inline fields when you need to ask users for information that is part of a continuous set, such as the date or credit card number.

### When not to use this form element

Don’t use inline fields for an entire form, as this will make it harder for users to scan the page.

### How it works

> It is possible to display fields in a horizontal line, using the following `template` value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Display fields in a horizontal line using the following `template` value:
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: You might want to use json here? Otherwise ignore this comment :)

"template": "globalFormInlineFields"
```

For example, here’s a possible field definition for a search bar, comprising an input and submit button:

> ```

Reviewer 2: You might want to use json here? Otherwise ignore this comment :)

{
    "template": "globalFormInlineFields",
    "gap": "1em",
    "fields": [
        {
            "template": "globalFormText",
            "name": "search",
            "id": "search",
            "label": "Search",
            "hideLabel": true
        },
        {
            "template": "globalFormButton",
            "type": "submit",
            "label": "Search",

>             "modifiers": ["primary"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "modifiers": ["secondary"]
```

        }
    ]
}
```

- `fields`: Individual fields are defined in a `fields` array.

> - `gap`: The gap between the fields; any valid `gap` value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `gap`: The gap between the fields; any valid CSS `gap` value.
```
